---
title: 'Drone Imagery Workflow'
date: 2017-10-10
permalink: /posts/2017/10/blog-post-8/
comments: true
author: Keith Menezes
excerpt:
categories:
  - Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
tags:
  - Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
  - Mapping
  - Imagery
  - Processing
  - Operations
  - Surveying
---

# I'm a certified UAV Operator Now!
 This summer (August 2017) I got UAV Ground School training by [Aerobotika Aerial Inc.](https://aerobotika.com/) through York University and my [research lab group](http://costas-armenakis.lab.yorku.ca/).

Having prior experience with UAV mapping enabled me to excel in the program which was both theoretical and practical. We had in-class lectures and we performed indoor flight training with microdrones, the DJI Phantom 3, and tested our labs UAV that I've been working on during my last research positions.

 I solidified my knowledge of UAS Operations and (Canadian) Regulations, flight theory, Pilot decision making and human factors that effect flight performance, Advanced Meteorology principles for flying, Weather Services, Flight Planning, and Air Regulations.

 The certificate in this training program is required for UAV operations because of Transport Canada's requirements TP 15263E (08/2014) _Knowledge Requirements for Pilots of Unmanned Air Vehicle Systems UAV 25 Kg or less, Operating within Visual Line of Sight_.

# Drone Imagery Workflow
 Now that I'm a certified UAV operator, I want to explain a *simplified* standard operating procedures for executing an UAV project:

#### Here are some examples of UAV data:
  •	Nadir/oblique imagery
  •	Geo tagged imagery
  •	3d model scans
  •	Close range imagery – inspection
  •	Videography
  •	LIDAR (Light Imaging Detection and Ranging)
  •	Various airborne sensors/payloads: air quality measurements, delivery mechanisms, sprayers, etc.

#### Analytics output
  •	Accurate orthophotos/orthomosaics
  •	Oblique imagery
  •	3d point clouds
  •	3d models
  • High Resolution Geotagged video/imagery
  •	Digital Elevation Model (DEM), Digital Surface Model (DSM)
  • Thermal Map (Rooftop Solar Panel Efficiency)
  • Feature extraction from imagery for building degradation/inspection

## 1. Project & Flight Planning
 - Planning is really important to any project. When a customer or client comes to you with an idea. You have to figure out exactly what they _require_ as the output (aka some analytics or imagery). From here I want to confirm that with my platform/software I will be able to deliver the product to them (i.e. horizontal and vertical accuracy, precision, resolution, etc.). Next, see if it is feasible to produce such data/analytics or if you need to purchase extra equipment or increase the price of the job.

 - From there I want to assess the site and any hazards or obstacles. Typically, I will go on Google Earth Satellite (as well as actually visit the site) and try to develop a safe and practical way to perform the operations taking into account people, animals, hazards, and obstacles that may be detrimental to the operations. Also, during this phase is when I will draft a Special Flight Operations Certificate (if needed, see the most updated laws on the Transport Canada website).

 - Some questions to answer are: do you have the Real-Time-Kinetic (RTK) Global Positioning System (GPS) for greater positional accuracy or high resolution/thermal camera to meet the user needs? What is your required flying height Above Ground Level (AGL) to achieve your Ground Sample Distance (GSD)? Do you need any/more Ground Control Points (GCPs) for corrections to the Cartesian Coordinate System? What (horizontal/vertical) overlap are we trying achieve?...

## 2.	Flight operations
- Now we are on-site with our equipment and batteries fully-charged, qualifications, certificates, and our flight team (Pilot, Visual Observer, etc.) fully-awake and ready to go. We know exactly what our flight path is and we carry out our pre/during/post flight procedures which is the data collection. During this time it is important to monitor all aircraft health with respect to battery levels, air speed, etc. through telemetry or other visual/audible indicators.

## 3.	Post-flight processing
- Here we take our raw imagery/video and process it using Agisoft Photoscan, Pix4D, Matlab, movie editing software, or similar software platforms.

## 4.	Manage large sets of data and serve to online data base
-	Typically a lot of data is generate so it is beneficial to store it all in the cloud. Sometimes we need to re-process the data from the next step so it is always great to have copies of the raw data. Typically people use ArcGIS Server, ArcGIS online, Dropbox, OneDrive, Google Drive, etc.

## 5.	Data analysis & feature extraction
- Now we interpret the data so this involves generating the specific output the client wanted and confirming that you have met their specified requirements.

## 6.	Focused applications
- Now we have the analytics we can format it into a document, video, or image to send to the client, but most of the time it will be too large to email. This is where you may want to consider a Website Application Interface to display the information to the customer in a user-friendly way.

# Conclusion
This was a quick overview of ways to go about an UAV project. Note that there are some safety and redundancy checks that I've skipped over here but will be required for you to cover in the SFOC application. Good luck and fly safely!

Reference:  https://www.aibotix.com/en/surveying.html

<div id="fb-root"></div>
<script>(function(d, s, id) {
  var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];
  if (d.getElementById(id)) return;
  js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id;
  js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.8";
  fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);
}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));</script>

<div class="fb-like" data-href="http://keithmenezes.ca/posts/2017/10/blog-post-8/" data-layout="standard" data-action="like" data-size="large" data-show-faces="true" data-share="false"></div>

<div class="fb-send" data-href="http://keithmenezes.ca/posts/2017/10/blog-post-8/"></div>
