---
title: 'How to spot Click Bait and Fake News in 10 easy steps!'
date: 2017-07-24
permalink: /posts/2017/24/blog-post-7/
comments: true
author: Keith Menezes
excerpt:
categories:
  - News
tags:
  - Social
  - Media
  - Fake
  - News
---

# This is for everyone!
I want my friends and family to know the importance of safely using the internet for gathering and synthesizing data. I have noticed a lot of people re-posting articles and news that target peoples' emotions, provoke response, and breed controversial opinions. By following these simple 10 steps you can find yourself more educated on topics and have saved and energy fighting with people online.

# What is Click Bait?
Click Bait is online content with the main purpose being to attract attention to a certain demographic and encourage visitors to click on a link to a particular web page. You will see this typically on Facebook and Twitter with provocative titles and pictures in the excerpt. There are often pages of opinions and arguments within the comments which sucker people to chime in. I also consider 'scroll-through' articles from sources like BuzzFeed to be indicative of Click Bait. BuzzFeed typically uses numbers, celebrities, and quizzes to catch the attention of readers.

For example ["7 Animals That Freak Out During Eclipses"](https://www.buzzfeed.com/danvergano/animals-that-freak-out-during-eclipses?utm_term=.nw7wmRAKX#.ql5eMDmBA) or ["Only A Doctor Can Pass This Anatomy Quiz"](https://www.buzzfeed.com/jakekaplan/do-the-bone-dance?origin=filqui&utm_term=.exzQLGY6g#.pi0JkpVX3). These pages typically don't add any intellectual value for the reader, instead the title challenges you to not click it because hey, you could be smarter than a doctor by passing an anatomy quiz on basic grade 11 exercise science.

Click Bait externally looks like it will provide something of value but instead promotes content related to popular culture while provoking response.

# What are my tips?
1. Be skeptical of headlines. False news stories often have catchy headlines in all caps with exclamation points or numbers. If shocking claims in the headline sound unbelievable, they probably are.

2. Look closely at the URL. A phony or look-alike URL may be a warning sign of false news. Many false news sites mimic authentic news sources by making small changes to the URL. You can go to the site to compare the URL to established sources.

3. Investigate the source. Ensure that the story is written by a source that you trust with a reputation for accuracy. If the story comes from an unfamiliar organization, check their "About" or "Contact" section to learn more.

4. Watch for unusual formatting. Many false news sites have misspellings or awkward layouts. Read carefully if you see these signs.

5. Consider the photos. False news stories often contain manipulated images or videos. Sometimes the photo may be authentic, but taken out of context. You can search for the photo or image to verify where it came from.

6. Inspect the dates. False news stories may contain timelines that make no sense, or event dates that have been altered.

7. Check the evidence. Check the author's sources to confirm that they are accurate. Lack of evidence or reliance on unnamed experts may indicate a false news story.

8. Look at other reports. If no other news source is reporting the same story, it may indicate that the story is false. If the story is reported by multiple sources you trust, it's more likely to be true.

9. Is the story a joke? Sometimes false news stories can be hard to distinguish from humor or satire. Check whether the source is known for parody, and whether the story's details and tone suggest it may be just for fun.

10. Some stories are intentionally false. Think critically about the stories you read, and only share news that you know to be credible.

# Closing
Hopefully now by looking at these tips you realized how much time you've wasted (or saved) by clicking (or not) on those social media links. You may have noticed I used some of these tactics to get users to click on this article. Finally, good luck out their finding your information online now that you are equipped with the skills to locate valid news.

# Credit
[Thanks to Facebook for taking the initiative to educate its users on safe practices when using the internet. Especially, as more young malleable minds enter the giant social media platform. Glad to see them make the effort for change.](https://www.facebook.com/help/188118808357379?ref=shareable&pnref=story)

<div id="fb-root"></div>
<script>(function(d, s, id) {
  var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];
  if (d.getElementById(id)) return;
  js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id;
  js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.8";
  fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);
}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));</script>

<div class="fb-like" data-href="http://keithmenezes.ca/posts/2017/24/blog-post-7/" data-layout="standard" data-action="like" data-size="large" data-show-faces="true" data-share="false"></div>

<div class="fb-send" data-href="http://keithmenezes.ca/posts/2017/24/blog-post-7/"></div>
