---
title: 'Blockchain Canada Meetup'
date: 2017-07-21
permalink: /posts/2017/20/blog-post-6/
comments: true
author: Keith Menezes
excerpt:
categories:
  - Satellites
tags:
  - Ethereum
  - Ether
  - Bitcoin
  - Blockchain
---

# What is Blockchain?
The blockchain is a distributed ledger technology that underlies cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin. It provides a way to record and transfer data that is transparent, safe, auditable, and resistant to outages.

Mining works by self-interested maintainers compete to find the next block in the chain (Proof of Work) which enables trust in a trust-less environment.

# What is Ethereum?
Ethereum was first launched in mid-2015. The central idea behind the Ethereum protocol is that of “smart contracts”. Ethereum provides an infrastructure for decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs) and decentralized applications (DApps), creating an intermediary-free network of applications. Ethereum Classic is more similar to Bitcoin in the sense that it has a fixed and deflationary monetary supply. On the Ethereum network, miners work to earn “Ether”. This is also used by application developers to pay for transaction fees on the entire network.

# Why am I interested in Blockchain?
The original Blockchain forms the backbone of the Bitcoin cryptocurrency, but this is only one application of Blockchain and one area this technology can disrupt.

At first I was quite skeptical of Bitcoin because I thought the user base was mainly for people on the Dark Web and people who keep their money under their mattress.

I realized that Blockchain can enhance many different markets like supply chain and global logistics. Here are some 'famous quotes':

“I believe Blockchain will do for trusted transactions what the Internet has done for information.” - Ginni Rometty, CEO of IBM

“Bitcoin will do to banks what email did to the postal industry.”
– Rick Falkvinge, Founder of the Swedish pirate party

Blockchain has the ability to make the organizations that use it transparent, democratic, decentralized, efficient, and secure. It's a technology that holds a lot of promise for the future, and it's already disrupting many industries.

Some experts and analytics say the cryptocurrency market has recently entered a period of exponential growth and is currently worth about $100 billion (which is about the GDP of Morocco, the 60th largest economy in the world). And by comparison, the total amount of money in the world is about $60 trillion.

While this exponential growth is ongoing, Bitcoin’s market share is falling. The top five biggest currencies—Ethereum, Ripple, Litecoin, Dash, and Monero—now account for 20 percent of the market. And the trend for Bitcoin is clear.

Some of the main industries I see application for Blockchain is:
* Financial: mortgages, cross country/bank payments [like Ripple](https://ripple.com/), and trade.
* Public Sector: citizen identity, medical records, and medicine supply chain.
* Retail: supply chain, loyalty programs.
* Insurance: claims processing
* and many more

<iframe width="1280" height="720" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/G3psxs3gyf8" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# What's next?
I am keeping an eye on this industry and predict rapid growth to perhaps tens of thousands of dollars per Bitcoin in the next ten (10) years. Now realizing the true potential of Blockchain I am considering investing in one of these platforms one day.

And of course there's always stories like the [hacker that stole $31M of Ether.](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/a-hacker-stole-31m-of-ether-how-it-happened-and-what-it-means-for-ethereum-9e5dc29e33ce) Which I'm still very concerned about.

# Learn more about Blockchain
https://www.meetup.com/BlockchainCanada/
https://blockgeeks.com

<div id="fb-root"></div>
<script>(function(d, s, id) {
  var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];
  if (d.getElementById(id)) return;
  js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id;
  js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.8";
  fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);
}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));</script>

<div class="fb-like" data-href="http://keithmenezes.ca/posts/2017/20/blog-post-6/" data-layout="standard" data-action="like" data-size="large" data-show-faces="true" data-share="false"></div>

<div class="fb-send" data-href="http://keithmenezes.ca/posts/2017/20/blog-post-6/"></div>
