---
title: 'GTC 2019'
date: 2019-04-01
permalink: /posts/2019/04/blog-post-11/
comments: true
author: Keith Menezes
excerpt:
categories:
  - Conference
tags:
  - Reflection
  - GPUs
  - Machine Learning
  - Artifical Intelligence
---


Happy New Years! What that means for me is renewing my domains, which made me reflect that I've been online for 2 years now!

I realized i haven't posted since last year and only made a few posts in 2018, definitely going to try to post more. Life is moving so fast, there's no time. So I'll be prioritizing documenting my reflections.

I've been working at WOLF Advanced Technology in Stoufville, ON. for a year now and I got a fantastic opportunity to represent WOLF at NVIDIA's GTC 2019.

# Key takeaways from GTC
I attended seven (7) courses with NVIDIA’s Deep Learning Institute (DLI). The structure of each course was very similar. The instructor would have us spin-up an instance in the cloud (Microsoft Azure) which would allocate to us; a containerized workspace with a pre-loaded environment and assign us a GPU to work with (typically a Tesla K80 or AGX/Xavier for the Jetson specific classes). By the time the instructor finished the 15-20-minute introduction, the cloud instance would’ve initialized. From there we used Jupyter Notebooks to continue through the lab implementing code-blocks, methods, trainings models, etc. Either at our own pace or instructor-led.

Courses I took:
1.	GPU-Accelerated Investment Selection with Deep Learning, PhD Mark J Bennett
2.	Modeling Time Series Data with RNN in Keras
Interesting way to take time-series - tabularized data and perform analytics. In the first session we used the sharpe ratio and a calculated risk to predict whether we should hold/sell different securities.  In the second session we looked at temporal data from infants in the hospitals and predicted how long they would survive based on different health metrics some of which the data was incoherent/unfilled.
3.	Object Detection & Image Segmentation with Tensor Flow
Object detection and scene segmentation is a key computer vision problem and used extensively for autonomous and medical applications. Like the demonstration I did on Xavier at the first Innovation team meeting, we used Microsoft's COCO dataset.
4.	Image Creation using General Adversarial Networks
GANs are probably the most interesting idea I’ve come across in Machine Learning. In this class we took a database of celebrity images and created new faces. I also took an image of Greg from the website and used my encoder to extract Greg’s features to then be manipulated into Greg’s Evil Twin.
5.	Deployment of Intelligent Video Analytics using TensorRT, Paul Hendricks
I learned that TensorRT is not just used for run-time inferencing, it’s also a tool which enables the user to optimize the model for inferencing (deployment of machine learning at the edge or in the cloud). Essentially it condenses layers and parallelizes them to be computed more optimally. Furthermore, the TensorRT Inference server can be used to deploy inferencing on GPU clusters in the cloud or at the edge. I was also introduced to NVIDIAs Deepstream SDK which is an end-to-end computer vision pipeline built for Tesla’s and Jetson hardware.
6.	Image and Video Captioning combining CNNs and RNNs
Similar to the way Closed Captions work, we used a Recurrent Neural Network and Long short-term memory (LSTM) to display text under images/video to describe the scene. LSTM layers were used to ‘remember’ subsequent words in the sentences.
7.	Building Autonomous Vehicles with NVIDIA Drive AGX, Luke Harvey
Here I met different people from the autonomous automotive (Traxen.ai) and farming (John-Deer) space which are all interested in Xavier and AGX platforms (as are we). In this training we learned the difference between the DRIVE Xavier platform (2x Xavier with no dedicated GPUs) and the DRIVE Pegasus platform (2x Xavier and 2x dedicated Turing GPUs). We used the DRIVE OS and DRIVEWORKS SDK to understand how to use and create our own sensor modules (cameras, radar, GNSS, lidar, radar, etc.) for prototyping/testing, cross compiling and deploying on an autonomous vehicle. 

# Overall Summary
NVIDIA’s GTC 2019 had over 9,000 people in attendance from all over the world -- from different sectors of the market surrounding GPU technology. The most predominant I found was that of Ray Tracing, Big Data, Robotics/Autonomous Vehicles, and Cloud Computing. NVIDIA’s focus was primarily on their Software Stack CUDA-X AI which is the platform built on CUDA that enables NVIDIA GPUs to be optimized for all these domain specific GPU solutions.
Big Data and Cloud Computing
This was most interesting to me because I had never realized how big the Big Data and Cloud Computing market was. Infact, there’s (most likely) millions/billions/trillions of terabytes of data being generated daily. The problem is that most of data in unorganized/incomplete and is just not ready to be analyzed. This process of ‘synthesizing’ the data is broken down into three steps or one acronym Extract, Transform, and Load (ETL). I was able to find some potential customers that are doing rugged cabinets (GPU clusters in ‘big boxes’) as well as rugged blade servers. To investigate this technology Oleg, Vladimir, and myself went to a contact I made at Fastdata.io to experience a demonstration of a software platform that performs ‘data stream processing’ natively on GPUs (three times faster than CPUs).  


# Conclusion
The conference provided me with direct access to NVIDIA solution architect(s) for my questions about how to utilize their software stack (CUDA-X AI) for concepting a WOLF product demonstration. GTC was a great bonding experience, we learned more about each other, and I got to code/work along side Vlad through some courses/content which was really fun. My goal is present at GTC 2020 and have a full demonstration ‘glass-to-glass’, ’end-to-end’ of our four (4) pillars, and perhaps incorporate some of our future pillars (AI + Robotics). GTC-2019 was truly an inspiring event that instilled my passion and pride for WOLF Advanced Technology.

<div id="fb-root"></div>
<script>(function(d, s, id) {
  var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];
  if (d.getElementById(id)) return;
  js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id;
  js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.8";
  fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);
}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));</script>

<div class="fb-like" data-href="http://keithmenezes.ca/posts/2019/04/blog-post-11/" data-layout="standard" data-action="like" data-size="large" data-show-faces="true" data-share="false"></div>

<div class="fb-send" data-href="http://keithmenezes.ca/posts/2019/04/blog-post-11/"></div>
